# FOR FOOD: An application to stop household food wastage 

This is an application developed by the team DECODER for Hack Harvard 2022
Our team consists of the very talented grad students of Northeastern University, Boston

* SASHWATA BANERJEE
* PRIYANKA TYAGI
* ARJUN R. PARDASANI

## Description

The motivation for creating this application came from a lazy evening when we opened our refrigerator 
and took a thorough look. We realized that much of our groceries were expired. Two cans of milk were 
one week out of date, the chicken that we bought from Whole foods smelt really bad and the mushrooms 
looked like they were left untouched for months. It is not that we do not cook at home at all but still
such sight made us shocked. We realized we cannot be the only one who waste food and the very next day
we started thinking for the food! 

Our android application is able to scan barcode and list the food items along with their purchase date
and expiry date. We know that we cannot get expiry date from just scanning barcodes but if we create 
a tie up with grocery stores and can access their inventory then by just scanning the 1-D barcode which 
is present in the bill, we can fetch all the important information. Once we have the data that we need 
then we notify the user prior to the expiry date. The user will also have an option to enter the dates
manually. 

Another novel idea is to generate a list of recipes based on the ingredients generated by Artificial 
Intelligence which will not only help the user to cook but also to make use of the foods that can 
otherwise be perished sitting idle inside the refrigerator. 

We hope our idea motivates people around the world to take this idea forward and implement it for 
our better future. 

## Setup

| Tool      | Version |
| ---       |  ---    |
| [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio) | Chipmunk 2021.2.1
| Android Gradle Plugin version | 7.2.0
| Compile SDK version | 32
| SDK Platform | Android 11.0 (R)

## Dependencies
| MLKIT | 16.0.1
| play-services-auth| 20.2.0
| camerax | 1.1.0-alpha09

## App Permission
* Camera
* Internet
* Google OAuth client ID

## How to use this repository

1. [Download and Install Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio)

2. Clone this repository and open the project in Android Studio

3. Sync Gradle and build it. 
